h1=. Mongo-EMF Query

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}


h2. Introduction

MongoEMF uses a EMF based query model for parsing URI queries in order to build a DBObject to query a MongoDB. 

h2. Query Model

MongoEMF utilizes a EMF Query model with the ns: 
_http://www.eclipselabs.org/emf/2010/query_
In the project *org.eclipselabs.emf.query*



h2. Query Model

IQueryEngine is the interface of the OSGi service used to create the DBObject

bc.. 
package org.eclipselabs.mongo.emf;

import org.eclipse.emf.common.util.URI;

import com.mongodb.DBObject;

/**
 * @author bhunt
 * 
 */
public interface IQueryEngine
{
	/**
	 * This function builds a DBObject to be used as a query to MongoDB from the EMF query
	 * 
	 * @param uri the incoming URI containing the query
	 * @return the DBObject representation of the query
	 */
	DBObject buildDBObjectQuery(URI uri);
}

h2. Current implementation
 
That is currently implemented by org.eclipselabs.mongo.emf.query.QueryEngine which builds the DBObject using
org.eclipselabs.emf.query.util.ExpressionBuilder to parse the uri.query() to build the model instance.


h3. Example query strings

The following examples of uri.query() (String)s parsed by org.eclipselabs.emf.query.util.ExpressionBuilder

bc.. 
##condition == true
##publicationDate > 1999 || publicationDate > 1999L
##publicationDate > 2011-05-15
##name == 'Stephen%20King'
##w + x + y + z
##w + (x + y) + z
##w + x + (y + z)
##x == y || (z == '10') || y == z
##x == y || (z == '10' || y == z)
##x == y || (z == '10')
##x == y || (z == '10') || y == z
##x == y
##x == y
##x == 'foo'
##a.b
##a.b
##'foo'

h2. Addigional References

"See Bryan Hunt Summer of Code proposal":http://bryanhunt.wordpress.com/2012/01/29/google-summer-of-code-2012-with-xtext-emf-and-mongodb/