h1=. BIRT Report Generator

@com.verticon.birt.report.engine.generator Version 1.0.0@

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}


h2(. Introduction

Generate BIRT reports from a directory of report designs, with a set of Report Parameters to a destination directory.  The report parameters are derived from a Report Parameters report design that creates a table of Report Parameters that map Report Parameter names as table column name and the values as cells in the table rows.   Reports will be generated in the destination directory for each row of the Report Parameter table times the number of reports in the directory of reports.


h2(. Requirements

BIRT Report Generator Wizard

Wizard Page prompts for:
# Directory of BIRT @*.rptdesign@ files
# Destination directory for the generated reports
# @*.rptdesign@ file that creates a table of Report Parameters


h2(. Plugins
 
# *com.verticon.birt.report.engine.generator*
# *com.verticon.birt.report.engine.ui*

h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's Report Loader offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that
can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>
