h1=. MQTT TrackerStore and iRouter Bridge

com.verticon.tracker.store.mqtt Version 1.0.0

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}


h2. Introduction

MQTT TrackerStore is a TrackerStore implementation that uses the Message Queue Telemetry Transport (MQTT) Protocol to access Tracker Cloud based TrackerStore document repositories. 

The iRouter Bridge is a Message translator and bridge between MQTT and the Tracker iRouter framework. It is used by Tracker Cloud servers to map MQTT messages to the backend TrackerStore implementations.


h2. iRouter Support

iRouter sensor and actuator networks can use the iRouter support within the MQTT TrackerStore for real time transaction recording of any Tracker Premises events.  


h3. iRouter Component Requirements

# Animal Tag recording to MongoDB
## Tags can contain one or more events
## Runs in iRouter appliances for headless applications for automatic recording of tag events from one or more fixed sensors
## Runs in Tracker Desktop BI Toolkit for hands free saving of animals, tags and events originating in iRouter sensor networks
## Multiple components instances can be configured to connect to one or more MongoDB stores
## Supports event updates to existing animals and the runtime creation of new animals
## iRouter Consumer component that leverages the power of the iRouter infrastructure for creating complex sensor and actuator based solutions.
## Configurable instances can support one or more tag readers or virtual tag producers


h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's Mongo Store offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that
can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>
