h1. Overview

h2. Document Status

__This document is the first draft of a Device Simulator Reference for the installation and configuration of the Tracker Device Simulator.__

h2. What is the Tracker Device Simulator?

The Tracker _Information Router_, **iRouter** is a __Just-In-Time__ generic integration solution for acquiring, transforming and exchanging information between network connected sensors and actuators.  
 
iRouter administrators need a way to simulate the behavior or real sensors and actuators when the actual use of real devices, may not be practical.  This is typically the case when administrators are bench testing or validating iRouter use case solutions.

The Tracker **Device Simulator** is a web server that also simulates network connected[1] external sensors and actuators.  The Device Simulator is a server application supporting:
* Applications connecting to simulated sensors and actuators[2]
* Web browser user interface for controlling simulated device.

By simply changing connection parameters on iRouter configurations, the iRouter can be made to connect to these simulated devices instead of real networked devices.  Administrators can then experiment with the interaction between the devices and the business logic they have modeled in their iRouter configurations.

h2. Installation and Starting

# Download the Simulator archive appropriate for your platform.  
# Bring up a console and run the executable.[3]
** The simulators internal webserver will startup
** All simulated devices will initialize internal logic and I/O to accept TCP connections

h2. Notes

fn1. Sensors and actuators typically have RS232 interfaces.  A common scenario is to attach these devices to a RS232 to Ethernet __device server.__  This provides uniform and distance insensitive network based connections to one or several sensor or actuator devices. Connections to these devices are made via TCP socket connections.  It is this type of connection that is simulated.

fn2. The iRouter is an example of this kind of application. 

fn3. Running the simulator with a click on the executable can also work, but if you want to see logging output and have access to the internal command line interface run the simulator in a console.


