h1=. Tracker Mongo Store UI

com.verticon.tracker.store.ui Version 0.1.0

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}


h2. Introduction

Tracker Mongo Store UI provides a ui tools for administrating users, registering premises, and recording animals to the Tracker Mongo Store.


h2. Property Tester Support Utilities

h3. CanLoadAdminPropertyTester

* From an Admin document gets the name attribute value of the admin and tests to see if it is the same as the current user
* Tests if there is a TrackerStoreAdmin service registered that can be used by the user.
 
h3. CanPublishAnimalsPropertyTester

* Obtains the uri from a Premises and tests to see if there is a registered ITrackerLoader service associated with it.

h3. CanRegisterLocationsPropertyTester

* Tests to see if there is a ITrackerStore and a ITrackerStoreAdmin available to the user.

h3. HasAllPremisesColumnsPropertyTester

* Tests a csv file for a header that contains all the necessary Premises attributes.

h2. Administration

h3. Loading Admin documents to specify publishing access rules

To administer Tracker Premises publishers on a MongoDB, an instance of the **http://www.verticon.com/admin/1.0/ad Admin** model (from component **com.verticon.tracker.store.admin**) must be loaded on MongoDB.  

The facility to load the _Admin_ is provided as a _Tracker Actions_ menu on the root _Admin_ element.  This menu is enabled only when the _CanLoadAdminPropertyTester_ tests positive.  Once the user will be validated to have the proper permission to load the _Admin_ document and one or more TrackerStoreAdmin services are found to have been configured a list dialog will present the user with a list dialog to choose which service to load the _Admin_ document. 

h3. Premises Registration

Pull down menu for Premises Registration is enabled on a Premises element when the _CanRegisterLocationsPropertyTester_ tests positive.

h3. Registering multiple Premises from a CSV file

Pull down menu for Premises Registration is enabled on a csv file  when the _HasAllPremisesColumnsPropertyTester_ tests positive.

h2. Saving Premises Animal Life Data and Event History

* RecordPremisesHandler

h2. Import Wizards

h3. Import Animal Wizard

h3. Import Premises Wizard

h2. Resolve All GeoLocation Names

Pull down menu to resolve GeoLocation Names enabled for animal and premises when the _CanPublishAnimalsPropertyTester_ tests positive. 

For the Animal the utility will return the current Animal location.  

For the Premises all Animals in the Premises will have their geolocations resolved.

This utility resolves foreign locations for the locations attributes on:

* Animal.location
* Event.publisherName
* MovedIn.sourceName
* MovedOut.destinationName
* Position.locationName



h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's Mongo Store offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that
can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>
