h1=. Example Farm

com.verticon.tracker.example Version 0.1.4

**Contents**

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}

h2. Introduction [1]

This project is an example of a typical Tracker Livestock project that uses Tracker model documents to record and manage animal identification, animal life data, animal event history, farm locations and contact information. 

h2. Project Contents
 
This project contains the following documents and files:


h3. about.html

This about file, in HTML format.


h3. about.textile

This about file in textile format.

h3. animalLifeDataUpLoad.txt

This is data file that contains animal life data information.  It was exported from a spreadsheet as a comma separated values text file. The 
data values in the file are animal:id, animal:visualId, animal:species, and animal:comments.  The species is either a 1 for beef or 2 for swine. 

h3. autotype.metatype

An example of an iRouter configuration _metatype_ document. _Metatype_ documents are used in several places within the Tracker Toolkit.  This _metatype_ document is an example of an iRouter configuration that specifies the embedded *iRouter* infrastructure services to integrate premises data with external weighing devices and Tracker Store data storage facilities. Those just starting out or not using the iRouter product can ignore this file. For details on the iRouter, see the _iRouter User Guide Document_.

h3. blood.gif

An image file referenced by the **My.metatype** file to represent a custom event with an icon.

h3. capture.tags

A simple text file with a list of example animal id numbers used as input to the Tracker import TagId Utilities. Right menu click on the file to see the Import TagId actions. Tracker Import TagId utilities make it easy to import lists of TagIds into the _.premises_ documents.

h3. doc.admin

An example *Tracker Store* _Admin_ document for specifying users access and permissions. Those just starting out or not using the Tracker Store feature for archival or collaborative storage of premises data can ignore this file. For details on the Tracker Store, see the _Tracker Store feature in the Tracker Desktop BI Toolkit Documentation_.

h3. doc.agri

An example _Agriculture_ document used for identifying one or more _.premises_ documents as part of an _association_.  _.premises_ documents referenced in an _Agriculture Association_ can be used as input to the Tracker *Location service* for identify animal locations for all _.premises_ documents throughout the workspace.  See the _Location Service_ documentation for more details.

h3. doc.kml

An example _Geography_ document used in GIS(Geographic Information Systems) and industry standard GeoBrowswers like Google Earth.  

h3. HighWaterProcessing.premises

An example business associate premises, with premises and location information but without any animals.  It is referenced in the doc.agri association element and will serve as a location in the location service.

h3. example.premises

An example _Premises_ document that contains example animals, animal life data, animal histories, premises details, location details, location areas and two custom events via a reference to the **My.metatype** document.  

h3. logback-test.xml

An example _logging_ configuration file.  Use this under the direction of Verticon technical support.

h4. Logging Configuration

# Modify the @tracker.ini@ in the installed directory of the tracker to add the lines
@-Dlogback.configurationFile=file:${workspace_loc}/com.verticon.tracker.example/logback-test.xml@
@-Dlogback.application=TrackerProduct@
after the @-vmargs@ line.

Where @${workspace_loc}@ is the installed directory of the tracker.


h3. My.metatype

An example _Metatype_ document that specifies to custom events.  This document is referenced by the **example.premises** document to enable users to add these two custom events to animals included in the **example.premsies** document. 

h3. NationalBeefPacking.premises

An example business associate premises, with premises and location information but without any animals.  It is referenced in the doc.agri association element and will serve as a location in the location service.

h3. PokyFeeders.premises

An example business associate premises, with premises and location information but without any animals.  It is referenced in the doc.agri association element and will serve as a location in the location service.

h3. RidgeButchering.premises

An example business associate premises, with premises and location information but without any animals.  It is referenced in the doc.agri association element and will serve as a location in the location service.

h3. Template.animal

An example _Animal_ document used by Tracker import utilities and RFID reader services to add new Animals and events to a _.premises_ document.


 

h2. Dependencies

This example uses:
# The Tracker Premises Model Editor feature @com.verticon.tracker.editor@
# The Tracker Location Service @com.verticon.locaton@ 
# The Tracker Agriculture Model Editor @com.verticon.agriculture.editor@ 
# Eclipse BIRT @org.eclipse.birt@
# Tracker Premises Report Pack, @com.verticon.tracker.report.pack@ 


h2. Reporting Installation and Configuration 

h3. Introduction

Tracker utilizes BIRT report design documents, BIRT shared resources for creating reports based on information in Tracker premises documents.  With Tracker BIRT reports can be created that can be reused to report on information from different data model instances in projects. 

Tracker also support the notion of report packs.  These report packs are predefined sets of reports that can be installed and copied to projects or referenced in place to report on data in premises documents. When Tracker detects a report pack at startup it loads all the reports and styles into the BIRT resource library. 

To get started you will need to install the Premises report pack, make some changes to the configuration, and copy the report or reference the report in place through html page. 


h3. Installation[2]

# Provision and install the Tracker Premises Report Pack @com.verticon.tracker.report.pack@ 
# If you haven't already done so, import and copy this project into the workspace.[3]

h3. Configuration

When tracker starts up, it loads all drivers and installed report packs to the BIRT resource directory. Then it starts a web server and sends it a test report.

# Change user preferences _General_ | _WebServer_ to select an internal or external web server
# Change user preferences _Report Design_ | _Preview_ | _Preview Server_ to select the port number for the preview server. _The reports in the reports pack use 8080 as the server port to prevent conflict with any other web servers running on the computer._
# Modify the @tracker.ini@ in the installed directory to add the line @-Dstart.webserver=true@ after the @-vmargs@ line. This will start the web server when the _Report Design_ perspective is opened in the workspace.  You must open the open the _Report Design_ perspective in order to run a Tracker report pack report.




h2. Reports 

Tracker reports are intended to be reused with different data model instances in projects.  These model documents are referenced by the report design documents as variables placed inside a @reports/report.properties@ file.     

h3(. Run Premises Reports from a project in the Workspace 

# Create a @reports@ directory in this project.
# Copy the @report.properties@ file from the @reports/report.properties@ in this example project to this directory
# Open the file and edit the line to @rp_premises_doc = platform:/resource/com.verticon.tracker.example/example.premises@ 
# Open the _Report Design_ perspective.  This will start the web server and send a test report to it. 
# Make sure the _Resource Explorer_ view is showing. If not show it:  _Windows_ } _Show View_ | _Report Design_ | _Resource Explorer_.
# Make sure that the @report.properties@ file is opened in an editor.  This will open the insure that the Shared Resources are showing in the _Resource Explorer_.
# Copy the reports you want from the @reports@ directory in the _Resource Explorer_ to the @reports@ directory of you project.
# Optionally modify one or more of the reports for new functionality. __To keep the location independent functionality use the datasets or the data sources from the @premises.rptlibrary@ deployted to the BIRT resources directory__.
# From the __Navigator View__ select the rptdesign file you wish to run, right click to get the popup menu and select the __Report and Run Report__ menu item.


h3(. Accessing Reports from a Browser

Reports can also be launched from a browser with a parameterized URL that specifies the hostname of the running BIRT Web Server, the report file path and the premises document to use as a datasource.  This is a convienent way to use reports loaded from report packs.

The easiest way to run these reports is to create a HTML document that embeds these parameterized URLs. The following section is an example of how to do this. [4]



h4(. Tracker Report Pack Reports

Reports from Tracker report packs are preloaded in the BIRT Web Server and can be launched with simple location independent paths to the reports. 
* The parameter @__report@ is a relative path to the report deployed in the BIRT Web Server.  
* The parameter @rp_premises_doc@ is a platform based url referencing the premises document in the workspace.

|_. Report|_.   Description|
|"Animal Events":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=report%2Fanimal_events.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the events of all animals. Animal identification, types and a list of events. |
|"Animal Locations":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=report%2Fanimal_locations.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the last known location of all animals. Animal identification, types, weights, and locations. |

h4(. Reports in the Workspace[5]

To access browser based reports that are in the workspace or the file system, you will have to use absolute paths to the rptdesign file. 
* The parameter @__report@ is a absolute path to the report deployed in the file system.  
* The parameter @rp_premises_doc@ is a platform based url referencing the premises document in the workspace.

|_. Report|_.   Description|
|"Animal Events":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=%2Fhome%2Fjconlon%2FWorkspaces%2Fruntime-Tracker%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Freports%2Fanimal_events.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__resourceFolder=%2Fopt%2FVerticon%2Fbirt_resources%2F&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the events of all animals. Animal identification, types and a list of events. |
|"Animal Locations":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=%2Fhome%2Fjconlon%2FWorkspaces%2Fruntime-Tracker%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Freports%2Fanimal_locations.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__resourceFolder=%2Fopt%2FVerticon%2Fbirt_resources%2F&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the last known location of all animals. Animal identification, types, weights, and locations. |

fn1. This document was created with the Wikitext textile editor. If you would like to edit this document or create documents
with WikiText, see "Getting Started with WikiText":http://eclipse.dzone.com/articles/getting-started-wikitext

fn2. To install the software go to the menu @Help | Install New Software | Tracker Release | BIRT | Tracker Premises Report Pack@

fn3. Imported projects are not required to be copied into the workspace default locations.  Use caution when working with imported but not copied projects, least they affect other user workspaces.

fn4. The links in the table will need prior configuration that is specific to your system in order to work on your local host. First, you must set the user preferences: @Report Design | Preview@ enable use external browser and @Report Design | Preview | Preview Server@ and set the port. Next, change the port in the links to reference the port you set.  Finally, you must edit the links to reference the absolute paths to the reports. For reports to work you may need to initial the ReportViewer Servlet by launching a report from the popup menu first.

fn5. These are only examples as the URL to the report is system specific.
