h1.  Tracker Configuration  com.verticon.tracker.configuration 

__Version 0.1.0__

__06/03/10__

{toc}


h2. Introduction

Components for implementing an EMF Resource for Metatype based on deployed metatype.xml resources and ConfigAdmin configurations.

"See Ticket#551":http://tracker-project.verticon.com/verticon_Tracker/ticket/551

h3. Exported classes

* ConfigAdminResourceFactoryImpl.java
**  Implements an EMF ResourceFactory

h3. Internal classes

* ConfigAdminResourceImpl.java
** Implements an EMF Resource for the ConfigurationAdmin services
** EMF Resource for creating a Metatype model
*** Metatype resources in deployed bundles
*** Configurations in the ConfigurationAdmin service
** Extends XMLResourceImpl

h3. Related projects

* com.verticon.tracker.configuration.tests
* com.verticon.tracker.configuration.editor
* com.verticon.osgi.metatype.core.model
* com.verticon.tracker.configuration.modelresource
** This was an experimental project that implemented the ModelResource Services defined in com.verticon.osgi.metatype.core

h3. Problems

* ConfigAdminModelResource.java 
## Extends AbstractModelResource.java
## Saving issues.

h3. Tests

See com.verticon.tracker.configuration.tests project

# ConfigAdminResourceImplTest.java

h3. TODO

* Create ConfigAdminModelResourceTest JUnit test in com.verticon.tracker.configuration.tests project
**  to test use cases and resolve problems with loading, saving, and using the Undo facilities while keeping
the isDirty state synchronized.


