h1. Component Factories

Component Factories are the creators of the service instances that do the actual work within the iRouter and the only types of component deployed to the iRouter.  There are two types of Component Factories:
# Business Logic Component Factories
# Proxy Component Factories

h2. Business Logic Component Factories

Business logic Component Factories create the service instances for transforming, controlling and routing information within the iRouter.

h3. Arithmetic Measurement Converter

A generic business logic Component Factory that creates services to convert one measurement to another based on an arithmetic calculation. 
* Consumes one measurement input
* Produces a measurement from the input and an arithmetic calculation
 
h3. Measurement Comparator

A generic business logic Component Factory that creates services to compare measurements, producing a state containing the results of the comparison. 

The measurement arriving on the first configured consumer scope is compared with the measurement arriving on the second configured consumer scope.  Produces a state with a:
* Negative integer value if the first measurement is less than the second
* Zero if the first measurement is equal than the second
* Positive integer if the first measurement is greater than the second measurement.
* Integer.MIN if the states are unequal or incompatible.
  
h3. BW Control

BW Control is an _use case_ specific custom business logic Component Factory that creates services for controlling livestock animal weight sensing with a TruTest Scalehead indicator and extracted animal fluid weight sensing with a Mettler Balance.  

_The BW Control is included as an example of a custom Component Factory._


h3. Measurement Logger


h2. Proxy Component Factories

Proxy Component Factories create services that gateway information between the internal services of an iRouter network to external physical input devices, sensors, displays and actuators. 

Proxy Component Factories are packaged as optional iRouter features. 



