<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><book xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" id="Tracker" label="Tracker User Guide" status="Draft" vendor="Verticon, Inc.">

	<bookinfo xml:base="bookinfo/bookinfo.xml">
		<title>Tracker User Guide</title>
		<authorgroup>
			<author>
				<firstname>John</firstname>
				<surname>Conlon</surname>
				<affiliation>
					<orgname>Verticon, Inc.</orgname>
				</affiliation>
			</author>
		</authorgroup>
		<edition>
			Tracker User's Guide version 0.1.0
		</edition>
		<pubdate>March 6, 2009</pubdate>
		<copyright>
		    <year>2007</year>
			<year>2008</year>
			<year>2009</year>
			<year>2010</year>
			<holder>Verticon, Inc.</holder>
		</copyright>

		<legalnotice>
			<blockquote>
				<para>
					Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
					modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free
					Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later
					version published by the Free Software Foundation;
					with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts,
					and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is
					included in the section entitled "GNU Free
					Documentation License".
				</para>
			</blockquote>
		</legalnotice>

		<legalnotice>
			<blockquote>
				<para>
					Tracker is free software: you can redistribute it
					and/or modify it under the terms of the
					<acronym>GNU</acronym>
					General Public License as published by the Free
					Software Foundation, either version 3 of the
					License, or (at your option) any later version.

					This program is distributed in the hope that it will
					be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even
					the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
					FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
					<acronym>GNU</acronym>
					General Public License for more details.
				</para>
				<para>
					A copy of the license is included in the section
					entitled
					<acronym>GNU</acronym>
					General Public License version 3.
				</para>
			</blockquote>
		</legalnotice>

	</bookinfo>
	<preface xml:base="preface/preface.xml">
		<?dbhtml filename="preface/preface.html" ?>
		<title>The Need for Animal Tracking</title>
		<para>
			Either for hunting or husbandry human beings have always
			observed and remembered animal movements. Today, with larger
			herds and more interaction between producers and
			infrastructure providers, more animal movements mean
		    more information for the producer or provider to manage.
		</para>
		<para>
			To ease the information management burden and reduce the
			cost for farm animal producers and livestock infrastructure
			providers, information technology solutions using
			computers, software applications and animal event sensors
			are required to record and manage animal movements and histories.
		</para>
</preface>
	<colophon xml:base="colophon/colophon.xml">
	<?dbhtml filename="colophon/colophon.html" ?>
	<para>
		Production versions of this documentation were produced with
		the DocBook DSSSL Stylesheets, called by the Apache Ant build tool,
		from within an Eclipse IDE.
		</para>
</colophon>
	<chapter xml:base="overview/overview.xml">
  	<?dbhtml filename="overview/frameworkOverview.html" ?>
	<title>Tracker Overview</title>

	<section>
		<title>What is the Tracker?</title>
		<para>
			Tracker is an <emphasis>Open Source</emphasis>, <emphasis>Component Based</emphasis>,
			<emphasis>Software Application Framework</emphasis> for the development of <emphasis>Multi-platform</emphasis>
			<emphasis>Livestock Information Solutions</emphasis>.
		</para>
	</section>

    <section>
        <?dbhtml filename="overview/frameworkOverview_goals.html" ?>
		<title>Project Goals</title>
		<para>
			The Tracker project was undertaken to provide;
			<orderedlist continuation="restarts" inheritnum="ignore" numeration="loweralpha">
				<listitem>
					<para>
						Livestock information technology analysts, designers, and developers 
						a framework for the creation of software solutions useful for livestock producers and
						infrastructure providers;
					</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>
						Low cost development solution to enable both large and
						small scale deployment of Livestock Information Technology application solutions;
					</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>
						A common industry development environment for the creation of a livestock event history
						inter-exchange solutions.
					</para>
				</listitem>

			</orderedlist>
		</para>
	</section>
	
	<section>
		<?dbhtml filename="overview/frameworkOverview_proposition.html" ?>
		<title>Service Proposition</title>
		<para>
			Software Application Products built from the Tracker Livestock Information
			Framework are used by livestock producers, infrastructure providers
			and process control auditors as effective, low cost solutions for;
			<itemizedlist mark="bullet">
				<listitem>
					<para>recording animal event history;</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>maintaining production efficiency;</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>improving product quality;</para>
				</listitem>
				<listitem>
					<para>documenting process control.</para>
				</listitem>
			</itemizedlist>
		</para>
	</section>
</chapter>
	<chapter xml:base="product/product.xml">
  	<?dbhtml filename="product/product.html" ?>
	<title>Product</title>
	<para>Tracker Livestock Information Framework Instances are typically provisioned with one Product 
	component.</para>

</chapter>
	<chapter xml:base="editors/editors.xml">
  	<?dbhtml filename="editors/editors.html" ?>
	<title>Editors</title>
	<para>Tracker Livestock Information Framework Instances are provisioned with one or more Editor Features.</para>
	
</chapter>
	<chapter xml:base="features/features.xml">
  	<?dbhtml filename="features/features.html" ?>
	<title>Features</title>
	<para>Tracker Livestock Information Framework Instances are provisioned with one or more Features.</para>
	
</chapter>
	<appendix id="gfdl" xml:base="appendix/fdl.xml">
  <?dbhtml filename="appendix/gnuDoclicense.html" ?>
  <title>GNU Free Documentation License</title>
  <para>
    Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Free Software Foundation,
    <abbrev>Inc.</abbrev> 51 Franklin <abbrev>St</abbrev>, Fifth Floor,
    Boston, <abbrev>MA</abbrev> 02110-1301 <abbrev role="initialism">USA</abbrev>.  Everyone is permitted to copy and
    distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but changing it is
    not allowed.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    0. PREAMBLE
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
    functional and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure
    everyone the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or
    without modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.
    Secondarily, this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to
    get credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for
    modifications made by others.
  </para>
  <para>
    This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of
    the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It complements
    the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for
    free software.
  </para>
  <para>
    We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
    software, because free software needs free documentation: a free program
    should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the software
    does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals; it can be used
    for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or whether it is
    published as a printed book.  We recommend this License principally for
    works whose purpose is instruction or reference.</para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that
    contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be
    distributed under the terms of this License.  Such a notice grants a
    world-wide, royalty-free license, unlimited in duration, to use that work
    under the conditions stated herein.  The "Document", below, refers to any
    such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and is
    addressed as "you".  You accept the license if you copy, modify or
    distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright
    law.
  </para>
  <para>
    A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
    Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications
    and/or translated into another language.
  </para>
  <para>
    A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
    Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
    authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
    matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
    subject.  (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
    Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.)  The relationship
    could be a matter of historical connection with the subject or with
    related matters, or of legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or
    political position regarding them.
  </para>
  <para>
    The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
    designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says
    that the Document is released under this License.  If a section does not
    fit the above definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be
    designated as Invariant.  The Document may contain zero Invariant
    Sections.  If the Document does not identify any Invariant Sections then
    there are none.
  </para>
  <para>
    The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as
    Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the
    Document is released under this License.  A Front-Cover Text may be at
    most 5 words, and a Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.
  </para>
  <para>
    A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
    represented in a format whose specification is available to the general
    public, that is suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with
    generic text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint
    programs or (for drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that
    is suitable for input to text formatters or for automatic translation to a
    variety of formats suitable for input to text formatters.  A copy made in
    an otherwise Transparent file format whose markup, or absence of markup,
    has been arranged to thwart or discourage subsequent modification by
    readers is not Transparent.  An image format is not Transparent if used
    for any substantial amount of text.  A copy that is not "Transparent" is
    called "Opaque".
  </para>
  <para>
    Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII
    without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML
    using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML,
    PostScript or PDF designed for human modification.  Examples of
    transparent image formats include PNG, XCF and JPG.  Opaque formats
    include proprietary formats that can be read and edited only by
    proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
    processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated
    HTML, PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output
    purposes only.
  </para>
  <para>
    The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus
    such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this
    License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in formats which
    do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the
    most prominent appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of
    the body of the text.
  </para>
  <para>
    A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title
    either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that
    translates XYZ in another language.  (Here XYZ stands for a specific
    section name mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications",
    "Endorsements", or "History".)  To "Preserve the Title" of such a section
    when you modify the Document means that it remains a section "Entitled
    XYZ" according to this definition.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which
    states that this License applies to the Document.  These Warranty
    Disclaimers are considered to be included by reference in this License,
    but only as regards disclaiming warranties: any other implication that
    these Warranty Disclaimers may have is void and has no effect on the
    meaning of this License.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    2. VERBATIM COPYING
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
    commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright
    notices, and the license notice saying this License applies to the
    Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
    conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use technical
    measures to obstruct or control the reading or further copying of the
    copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept compensation in
    exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough number of copies
    you must also follow the conditions in section 3.
  </para>
  <para>
    You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you
    may publicly display copies.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have
    printed covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the
    Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the
    copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts:
    Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back
    cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify you as the
    publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present the full title
    with all words of the title equally prominent and visible.  You may add
    other material on the covers in addition.  Copying with changes limited to
    the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the Document and satisfy
    these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in other
    respects.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly,
    you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the
    actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.
  </para>
  <para>
    If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more
    than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy
    along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a
    computer-network location from which the general network-using public has
    access to download using public-standard network protocols a complete
    Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material.  If you use the
    latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin
    distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this Transparent
    copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at least one
    year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
    through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.
  </para>
  <para>
    It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
    Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
    them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the
    Document.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    4. MODIFICATIONS
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
    conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the
    Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version
    filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution and
    modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy of it.
    In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:
  </para>
  <orderedlist continuation="restarts" inheritnum="ignore" numeration="upperalpha">
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
        from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which
        should, if there were any, be listed in the History section of the
        Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version if the
        original publisher of that version gives permission.
        </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
        responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified
        Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the
        Document (all of its principal authors, if it has fewer than five),
        unless they release you from this requirement.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified
        Version, as the publisher.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to
        the other copyright notices.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
        giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the
        terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
        and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Include an unaltered copy of this License.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add
        to it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
        publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
        there is no section Entitled "History" in the Document, create one
        stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
        given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
        Version as stated in the previous sentence.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
        public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the
        network locations given in the Document for previous versions it was
        based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.  You may omit
        a network location for a work that was published at least four years
        before the Document itself, or if the original publisher of the
        version it refers to gives permission.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", Preserve
        the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all the
        substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or
        dedications given therein.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in
        their text and in their titles.  Section numbers or the equivalent are
        not considered part of the section titles.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section may not be
        included in the Modified Version.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled "Endorsements" or
        to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <simpara>
        Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.
      </simpara>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  <para>
    If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices
    that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the
    Document, you may at your option designate some or all of these sections
    as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant
    Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.  These titles must be
    distinct from any other section titles.
  </para>
  <para>
    You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
    nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for
    example, statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by
    an organization as the authoritative definition of a standard.
  </para>
  <para>
    You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
    passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of
    Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of Front-Cover Text
    and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or through arrangements made
    by) any one entity.  If the Document already includes a cover text for the
    same cover, previously added by you or by arrangement made by the same
    entity you are acting on behalf of, you may not add another; but you may
    replace the old one, on explicit permission from the previous publisher
    that added the old one.
  </para>
  <para>
    The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
    permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
    endorsement of any Modified Version.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
    License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions,
    provided that you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections
    of all of the original documents, unmodified, and list them all as
    Invariant Sections of your combined work in its license notice, and that
    you preserve all their Warranty Disclaimers.
  </para>
  <para>
    The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
    identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy.  If there
    are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents,
    make the title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in
    parentheses, the name of the original author or publisher of that section
    if known, or else a unique number.  Make the same adjustment to the
    section titles in the list of Invariant Sections in the license notice of
    the combined work.
  </para>
  <para>
    In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in
    the various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History";
    likewise combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any
    sections Entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections Entitled
    "Endorsements".
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
    released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
    License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
    the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
    verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.
  </para>
  <para>
    You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
    it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
    License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all other
    respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
    independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
    distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting
    from the compilation is not used to limit the legal rights of the
    compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit.  When the
    Document is included in an aggregate, this License does not apply to the
    other works in the aggregate which are not themselves derivative works of
    the Document.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies
    of the Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire
    aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket
    the Document within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers
    if the Document is in electronic form.  Otherwise they must appear on
    printed covers that bracket the whole aggregate.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    8. TRANSLATION
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
    translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.  Replacing
    Invariant Sections with translations requires special permission from
    their copyright holders, but you may include translations of some or all
    Invariant Sections in addition to the original versions of these Invariant
    Sections.  You may include a translation of this License, and all the
    license notices in the Document, and any Warranty Disclaimers, provided
    that you also include the original English version of this License and the
    original versions of those notices and disclaimers.  In case of a
    disagreement between the translation and the original version of this
    License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will prevail.
  </para>
  <para>
    If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements",
    "Dedications", or "History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its
    Title (section 1) will typically require changing the actual title.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    9. TERMINATION
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
    expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to copy,
    modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
    automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However, parties
    who have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not
    have their licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full
    compliance.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU
    Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new versions will be
    similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
    address new problems or concerns.  See <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/">http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.  If
    the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License
    "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the
    terms and conditions either of that specified version or of any later
    version that has been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software
    Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version number of this
    License, you may choose any version ever published (not as a draft) by the
    Free Software Foundation.
  </para>
  <bridgehead renderas="sect1">
    ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
    License in the document and put the following copyright and license
    notices just after the title page:
  </para>
  <blockquote>
    <para>
      Copyright (C) YEAR YOUR NAME.
    </para>
    <para>
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
      under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
      any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
      Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
      copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free
      Documentation License".
    </para>
  </blockquote>
  <para>
    If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts,
    replace the "with...Texts." line with this:
  </para>
  <blockquote>
    <para>
      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
      Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.
    </para>
  </blockquote>
  <para>
    If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other
    combination of the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the
    situation.
  </para>
  <para>
    If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
    recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free
    software license, such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their
    use in free software.
  </para>
</appendix>
	<appendix xml:base="appendix/gpl.xml">
   <?dbhtml filename="appendix/gnulicense.html" ?>
  <title><acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License version 3
  </title>
  <para>
    Version 3, 29 June 2007
  </para>
  <para>
    Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
    <ulink url="http://fsf.org/">http://fsf.org/</ulink>
  </para>
  <para>
    Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
    document, but changing it is not allowed.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="Preamble" renderas="sect1">
    Preamble
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    The <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License is a free, copyleft
    license for software and other kinds of works.
  </para>
  <para>
    The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to
    take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast, the
    <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License is intended to guarantee your
    freedom to share and change all versions of a program—to make sure it
    remains free software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation,
    use the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License for most of our
    software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its
    authors.  You can apply it to your programs, too.
  </para>
  <para>
    When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.  Our
    General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
    to distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish),
    that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can
    change the software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you
    know you can do these things.
  </para>
  <para>
    To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these
    rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have certain
    responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify
    it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.
  </para>
  <para>
    For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or
    for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you
    received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
    code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.
  </para>
  <para>
    Developers that use the <acronym>GNU</acronym> <acronym>GPL</acronym>
    protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert copyright on the software,
    and (2) offer you this License giving you legal permission to copy,
    distribute and/or modify it.
  </para>
  <para>
    For the developers’ and authors’ protection, the
    <acronym>GPL</acronym> clearly explains that there is no warranty for this
    free software.  For both users’ and authors’ sake, the
    <acronym>GPL</acronym> requires that modified versions be marked as changed,
    so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to authors of
    previous versions.
  </para>
  <para>
    Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
    versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so.
    This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users’
    freedom to change the software.  The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs
    in the area of products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it
    is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we have designed this version of the
    <acronym>GPL</acronym> to prohibit the practice for those products.  If such
    problems arise substantially in other domains, we stand ready to extend this
    provision to those domains in future versions of the <acronym>GPL</acronym>,
    as needed to protect the freedom of users.
  </para>
  <para>
    Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.  States
    should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on
    general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the
    special danger that patents applied to a free program could make it
    effectively proprietary.  To prevent this, the <acronym>GPL</acronym>
    assures that patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.
  </para>
  <para>
    The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
    follow.
  </para>
  <bridgehead>
    TERMS AND CONDITIONS
  </bridgehead>
  <bridgehead id="Definitions" renderas="sect1">
    0. Definitions.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    “This License” refers to version 3 of the <acronym>GNU</acronym>
    General Public License.
  </para>
  <para>
    “Copyright” also means copyright-like laws that apply to other
    kinds of works, such as semiconductor masks.
  </para>
  <para>
    “The Program” refers to any copyrightable work licensed under
    this License.  Each licensee is addressed as “you”.
    “Licensees” and “recipients” may be individuals or
    organizations.
  </para>
  <para>
    To “modify” a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of
    the work in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making
    of an exact copy.  The resulting work is called a “modified
    version” of the earlier work or a work “based on” the
    earlier work.
  </para>
  <para>
    A “covered work” means either the unmodified Program or a work
    based on the Program.
  </para>
  <para>
    To “propagate” a work means to do anything with it that, without
    permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement
    under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or
    modifying a private copy.  Propagation includes copying, distribution (with
    or without modification), making available to the public, and in some
    countries other activities as well.
  </para>
  <para>
    To “convey” a work means any kind of propagation that enables
    other parties to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user
    through a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.
  </para>
  <para>
    An interactive user interface displays “Appropriate Legal
    Notices” to the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently
    visible feature that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2)
    tells the user that there is no warranty for the work (except to the extent
    that warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the work under this
    License, and how to view a copy of this License.  If the interface presents
    a list of user commands or options, such as a menu, a prominent item in the
    list meets this criterion.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="SourceCode" renderas="sect1">
    1. Source Code.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    The “source code” for a work means the preferred form of the
    work for making modifications to it.  “Object code” means any
    non-source form of a work.
  </para>
  <para>
    A “Standard Interface” means an interface that either is an
    official standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
    interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that is
    widely used among developers working in that language.
  </para>
  <para>
    The “System Libraries” of an executable work include anything,
    other than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
    packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major Component,
    and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that Major Component, or
    to implement a Standard Interface for which an implementation is available
    to the public in source code form.  A “Major Component”, in this
    context, means a major essential component (kernel, window system, and so
    on) of the specific operating system (if any) on which the executable work
    runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an object code interpreter
    used to run it.
  </para>
  <para>
    The “Corresponding Source” for a work in object code form means
    all the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
    work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
    control those activities.  However, it does not include the work’s
    System Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free
    programs which are used unmodified in performing those activities but which
    are not part of the work.  For example, Corresponding Source includes
    interface definition files associated with source files for the work, and
    the source code for shared libraries and dynamically linked subprograms that
    the work is specifically designed to require, such as by intimate data
    communication or control flow between those subprograms and other parts of
    the work.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
    automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="BasicPermissions" renderas="sect1">
    2. Basic Permissions.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
    on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met.
    This License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the
    unmodified Program.  The output from running a covered work is covered by
    this License only if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered
    work.  This License acknowledges your rights of fair use or other
    equivalent, as provided by copyright law.
  </para>
  <para>
    You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
    without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force.  You
    may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make
    modifications exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for
    running those works, provided that you comply with the terms of this License
    in conveying all material for which you do not control copyright.  Those
    thus making or running the covered works for you must do so exclusively on
    your behalf, under your direction and control, on terms that prohibit them
    from making any copies of your copyrighted material outside their
    relationship with you.
  </para>
  <para>
    Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
    conditions stated below.  Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
    unnecessary.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="Protecting" renderas="sect1">
    3. Protecting Users’ Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
    under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
    copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
    restricting circumvention of such measures.
  </para>
  <para>
    When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
    circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
    effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
    work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of
    the work as a means of enforcing, against the work’s users, your or
    third parties’ legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological
    measures.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="ConveyingVerbatim" renderas="sect1">
    4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may convey verbatim copies of the Program’s source code as you
    receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
    publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all
    notices stating that this License and any non-permissive terms added in
    accord with section 7 apply to the code; keep intact all notices of the
    absence of any warranty; and give all recipients a copy of this License
    along with the Program.
  </para>
  <para>
    You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
    may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="ConveyingModified" renderas="sect1">
    5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
    it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section
    4, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:
  </para>
  <orderedlist continuation="restarts" inheritnum="ignore" numeration="loweralpha">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
        giving a relevant date.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
        this License and any conditions added under section 7.  This requirement
        modifies the requirement in section 4 to “keep intact all
        notices”.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
        anyone who comes into possession of a copy.  This License will therefore
        apply, along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the
        whole of the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are
        packaged.  This License gives no permission to license the work in any
        other way, but it does not invalidate such permission if you have
        separately received it.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
        Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive
        interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need
        not make them do so.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  <para>
    A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
    which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are
    not combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of
    a storage or distribution medium, is called an “aggregate” if
    the compilation and its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access
    or legal rights of the compilation’s users beyond what the individual works
    permit.  Inclusion of a covered work in an aggregate does not cause
    this License to apply to the other parts of the aggregate.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="ConveyingNonSource" renderas="sect1">
    6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of
    sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable
    Corresponding Source under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:
  </para>
  <orderedlist continuation="restarts" inheritnum="ignore" numeration="loweralpha">
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product (including
        a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding Source
        fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
        interchange.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product (including
        a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer, valid
        for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts
        or customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses
        the object code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all
        the software in the product that is covered by this License, on a
        durable physical medium customarily used for software interchange, for a
        price no more than your reasonable cost of physically performing this
        conveying of source, or (2) access to copy the Corresponding Source from
        a network server at no charge.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
        offer to provide the Corresponding Source.  This alternative is allowed
        only occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the
        object code with such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
        (gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the
        Corresponding Source in the same way through the same place at no
        further charge.  You need not require recipients to copy the
        Corresponding Source along with the object code.  If the place to copy
        the object code is a network server, the Corresponding Source may be on
        a different server (operated by you or a third party) that supports
        equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain clear directions
        next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding Source.
        Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain
        obligated to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to
        satisfy these requirements.
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
        inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the
        work are being offered to the general public at no charge under
        subsection 6d.
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  <para>
    A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
    the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in
    conveying the object code work.
  </para>
  <para>
    A “User Product” is either (1) a “consumer product”,
    which means any tangible personal property which is normally used for
    personal, family, or household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold
    for incorporation into a dwelling.  In determining whether a product is a
    consumer product, doubtful cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage.
    For a particular product received by a particular user, “normally
    used” refers to a typical or common use of that class of product,
    regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way in which the
    particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the
    product.  A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the product
    has substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such
    uses represent the only significant mode of use of the product.
  </para>
  <para>
    “Installation Information” for a User Product means any methods,
    procedures, authorization keys, or other information required to install and
    execute modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a
    modified version of its Corresponding Source.  The information must suffice
    to ensure that the continued functioning of the modified object code is in
    no case prevented or interfered with solely because modification has been
    made.
  </para>
  <para>
    If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
    specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of
    a transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product
    is transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term
    (regardless of how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding
    Source conveyed under this section must be accompanied by the Installation
    Information.  But this requirement does not apply if neither you nor any
    third party retains the ability to install modified object code on the User
    Product (for example, the work has been installed in
    <acronym>ROM</acronym>).
  </para>
  <para>
    The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
    requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for
    a work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
    Product in which it has been modified or installed.  Access to a network may
    be denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
    operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for
    communication across the network.
  </para>
  <para>
    Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
    accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented
    (and with an implementation available to the public in source code form),
    and must require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or
    copying.
  </para>
   <bridgehead id="AdditionalTerms" renderas="sect1">
     7. Additional Terms.
   </bridgehead>
   <para>
     “Additional permissions” are terms that supplement the terms of
     this License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.
     Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall be
     treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent that
     they are valid under applicable law.  If additional permissions apply only
     to part of the Program, that part may be used separately under those
     permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by this License
     without regard to the additional permissions.
   </para>
   <para>
     When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
     additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it.  (Additional
     permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases
     when you modify the work.)  You may place additional permissions on
     material, added by you to a covered work, for which you have or can give
     appropriate copyright permission.
   </para>
   <para>
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add
     to a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
     material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:
   </para>
   <orderedlist continuation="restarts" inheritnum="ignore" numeration="loweralpha">
     <listitem>
       <para>
         Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
         of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or
       </para>
     </listitem>
     <listitem>
       <para>
         Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
         attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices
         displayed by works containing it; or
       </para>
     </listitem>
     <listitem>
       <para>
         Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
         requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in
         reasonable ways as different from the original version; or
       </para>
     </listitem>
     <listitem>
       <para>
         Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
         authors of the material; or
       </para>
     </listitem>
     <listitem>
       <para>
         Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
         names, trademarks, or service marks; or
       </para>
     </listitem>
     <listitem>
       <para>
         Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
         anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with
         contractual assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any
         liability that these contractual assumptions directly impose on those
         licensors and authors.
       </para>
     </listitem>
   </orderedlist>
   <para>
     All other non-permissive additional terms are considered “further
     restrictions” within the meaning of section 10.  If the Program as
     you received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is
     governed by this License along with a term that is a further restriction,
     you may remove that term.  If a license document contains a further
     restriction but permits relicensing or conveying under this License, you
     may add to a covered work material governed by the terms of that license
     document, provided that the further restriction does not survive such
     relicensing or conveying.
   </para>
   <para>
     If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
     place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms
     that apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the
     applicable terms.
   </para>
   <para>
     Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form
     of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above
     requirements apply either way.
   </para>
   <bridgehead id="Termination" renderas="sect1">
     8. Termination.
   </bridgehead>
   <para>
     You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
     under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is
     void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License
     (including any patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section
     11).
   </para>
   <para>
     However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from
     a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and
     until the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license,
     and (b) permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the
     violation by some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.
   </para>
   <para>
     Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
     permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
     reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of
     violation of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and
     you cure the violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.
   </para>
   <para>
     Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
     licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this
     License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
     reinstated, you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same
     material under section 10.
   </para>
   <bridgehead id="AcceptanceNotRequired" renderas="sect1">
     9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.
   </bridgehead>
   <para>
     You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a
     copy of the Program.  Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring
     solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a
     copy likewise does not require acceptance.  However, nothing other than
     this License grants you permission to propagate or modify any covered work.
     These actions infringe copyright if you do not accept this License.
     Therefore, by modifying or propagating a covered work, you indicate your
     acceptance of this License to do so.
   </para>
   <bridgehead id="AutomaticDownstream" renderas="sect1">
     10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.
   </bridgehead>
   <para>
     Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
     license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that
     work, subject to this License.  You are not responsible for enforcing
     compliance by third parties with this License.
   </para>
   <para>
     An “entity transaction” is a transaction transferring control
     of an organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
     organization, or merging organizations.  If propagation of a covered work
     results from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who
     receives a copy of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the
     party’s predecessor in interest had or could give under the previous
     paragraph, plus a right to possession of the Corresponding Source of the
     work from the predecessor in interest, if the predecessor has it or can get
     it with reasonable efforts.
   </para>
   <para>
     You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
     granted or affirmed under this License.  For example, you may not impose a
     license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under
     this License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim
     or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed
     by making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or
     any portion of it.
   </para>
  <bridgehead id="Patents" renderas="sect1">
    11. Patents.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    A “contributor” is a copyright holder who authorizes use under
    this License of the Program or a work on which the Program is based.  The
    work thus licensed is called the contributor’s “contributor
    version”.
  </para>
  <para>
    A contributor’s “essential patent claims” are all patent
    claims owned or controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or
    hereafter acquired, that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by
    this License, of making, using, or selling its contributor version, but do
    not include claims that would be infringed only as a consequence of further
    modification of the contributor version.  For purposes of this definition,
    “control” includes the right to grant patent sublicenses in a
    manner consistent with the requirements of this License.
  </para>
  <para>
    Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
    license under the contributor’s essential patent claims, to make, use,
    sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the
    contents of its contributor version.
  </para>
  <para>
    In the following three paragraphs, a “patent license” is any
    express agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a
    patent (such as an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not
    to sue for patent infringement).  To “grant” such a patent
    license to a party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to
    enforce a patent against the party.
  </para>
  <para>
    If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
    Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free
    of charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available
    network server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1)
    cause the Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive
    yourself of the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or
    (3) arrange, in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License,
    to extend the patent license to downstream recipients.  “Knowingly
    relying” means you have actual knowledge that, but for the patent
    license, your conveying the covered work in a country, or your
    recipient’s use of the covered work in a country, would infringe one
    or more identifiable patents in that country that you have reason to believe
    are valid.
  </para>
  <para>
    If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
    you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and
    grant a patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work
    authorizing them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the
    covered work, then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to
    all recipients of the covered work and works based on it.
  </para>
  <para>
    A patent license is “discriminatory” if it does not include
    within the scope of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is
    conditioned on the non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are
    specifically granted under this License.  You may not convey a covered work
    if you are a party to an arrangement with a third party that is in the
    business of distributing software, under which you make payment to the third
    party based on the extent of your activity of conveying the work, and under
    which the third party grants, to any of the parties who would receive the
    covered work from you, a discriminatory patent license (a) in connection
    with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or copies made from those
    copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with specific products or
    compilations that contain the covered work, unless you entered into that
    arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.
  </para>
  <para>
    Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
    implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
    available to you under applicable patent law.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="NoSurrender" renderas="sect1">
    12. No Surrender of Others’ Freedom.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
    otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
    excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot convey a
    covered work so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
    License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may
    not convey it at all.  For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you
    to collect a royalty for further conveying from those to whom you convey the
    Program, the only way you could satisfy both those terms and this License
    would be to refrain entirely from conveying the Program.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="UsedWithAGPL" renderas="sect1">
    13. Use with the <acronym>GNU</acronym> Affero General Public License.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
    link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the
    <acronym>GNU</acronym> Affero General Public License into a single combined
    work, and to convey the resulting work.  The terms of this License will
    continue to apply to the part which is the covered work, but the special
    requirements of the <acronym>GNU</acronym> Affero General Public License,
    section 13, concerning interaction through a network will apply to the
    combination as such.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="RevisedVersions" renderas="sect1">
    14. Revised Versions of this License.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
    <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License from time to time.  Such new
    versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in
    detail to address new problems or concerns.
  </para>
  <para>
    Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
    specifies that a certain numbered version of the <acronym>GNU</acronym>
    General Public License “or any later version” applies to it, you
    have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that
    numbered version or of any later version published by the Free Software
    Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of the
    <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License, you may choose any version
    ever published by the Free Software Foundation.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of
    the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License can be used, that
    proxy’s public statement of acceptance of a version permanently
    authorizes you to choose that version for the Program.
  </para>
  <para>
    Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
    However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright
    holder as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="WarrantyDisclaimer" renderas="sect1">
    15. Disclaimer of Warranty.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
    LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
    OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
    ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
    THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH
    YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL
    NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="LiabilityLimitation" renderas="sect1">
    16. Limitation of Liability.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
    ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE
    PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
    GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE
    OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA
    OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD
    PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
    EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
    SUCH DAMAGES.
  </para>
  <bridgehead id="InterpretationSecs1516" renderas="sect1">
    17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above
    cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing
    courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute
    waiver of all civil liability in connection with the Program, unless a
    warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the Program in
    return for a fee.
  </para>
  <bridgehead>
    END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
  </bridgehead>
  <bridgehead id="HowToApply" renderas="sect1">
    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs
  </bridgehead>
  <para>
    If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible
    use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software
    which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.
  </para>
  <para>
    To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to
    attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the
    exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
    “copyright” line and a pointer to where the full notice is
    found.
  </para>
  <screen format="linespecific">
<replaceable>one line to give the program’s name and a brief idea of what it does.</replaceable>
Copyright (C) <replaceable>year</replaceable> <replaceable>name of author</replaceable>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
<acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/">http://www.gnu.org/licenses/</ulink>.
  </screen>
  <para>
    Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.
  </para>
  <para>
    If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
    this when it starts in an interactive mode:
  </para>
  <screen format="linespecific">
<replaceable>program</replaceable> Copyright (C) <replaceable>year</replaceable> <replaceable>name of author</replaceable>
This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type ‘<literal moreinfo="none">show w</literal>’.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type ‘<literal moreinfo="none">show c</literal>’ for details.
  </screen>
  <para>
    The hypothetical commands ‘<literal moreinfo="none">show w</literal>’ and
    ‘<literal moreinfo="none">show c</literal>’ should show the appropriate parts of
    the General Public License.  Of course, your program’s commands might be
    different; for a GUI interface, you would use an “about box”.
  </para>
  <para>
    You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
    if any, to sign a “copyright disclaimer” for the program, if
    necessary.  For more information on this, and how to apply and follow the
    <acronym>GNU</acronym> <acronym>GPL</acronym>, see
    <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/">http://www.gnu.org/licenses/</ulink>.
  </para>
  <para>
    The <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License does not permit
    incorporating your program into proprietary programs.  If your program is a
    subroutine library, you may consider it more useful to permit linking
    proprietary applications with the library.  If this is what you want to do,
    use the <acronym>GNU</acronym> Lesser General Public License instead of this
    License.  But first, please read <ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/why-not-lgpl.html">http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/why-not-lgpl.html</ulink>.
  </para>
</appendix>
	
	<!-- TODO Add a chapter on the different kinds of products 
	
	-->
</book>