h1=. Tracker Desktop Product Documentation

com.verticon.tracker.product.desktop.doc Version 0.1.0

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}


h2. Introduction

Tracker Desktop Product Documentation is the base documentation that will be inserted into the 
@com.verticon.tracker.doc/toc.xml#tracker_desktop@ anchor of the Tracker product line documentation.

Tracker editors and features will dynamically add content to the anchors the following anchors in this document.

bc. <topic href="html//editors/editors.html" label="Provisioned Editors">
   <anchor id="tracker_editor_premises"/>
   <anchor id="tracker_editor_metatype"/>
   <anchor id="tracker_editor_agriculture"/>
   <anchor id="tracker_editor_fair"/>
   <anchor id="tracker_editor"/>
</topic>
<topic href="html//features/features.html" label="Provisioned Features">
   <anchor id="tracker_feature"/>


h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's Mongo Store offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that
can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>