h1=. Trigger View Component

com.verticon.tracker.trigger Version 1.0.0

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}

h2. Introduction

Triggers are messages that interact with external programs or devices. Triggers can take the form of files or text sent to TCP ports.

Tracker Trigger View is an administrator and an operator interface for managing multiple trigger files.

Trigger files are files written to a directory that cause (or Trigger) an external action.  External applications can watch for these trigger files and invoke a specified action on there detection.

h3. Trigger Files

Trigger files are files written to a directory that cause (or Trigger) an external action, process or service.  External applications can monitor a directory for these trigger files and to invoke an action on their detection.  

h4. Label Printing Application Example

Label printing is an example.  Trigger files can contain data that can be read by some printing applications and placed within the fields of a label.   Trigger files can also contain commands that can specify variables that are interpreted by the application.
	
h4. Measurements in Trigger files

iRouter components can connect to scales and create Trigger files when a weight is placed on the scale.  The actual weight information is written inside of the Trigger file and interpreted by an external application to create weight fields with numbers. 

h2. User Interface

Trigger File Manager is an administrator and an operator interface for managing multiple trigger files. 

* Admin and user interfaces use a master table of triggers and form that shows the details of the selected trigger.
* Table columns can be sorted, moved and hidden and its rows can be filtered.
* Trigger entries are validated prior to save
* Direct generation of trigger files to support creating 'For retail Weighing' labels.


h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's Trigger View component offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>
