h1. iRouter Premises Features

There are three iRouter features that facilitate the movement of information between iRouter network services, Premises documents and Premises Editor support tools. The following provides an overview of these features.  

For details on these features see the  "Tracker Business Intelligence User Guide":http://tracker.verticon.com/Tracker/documentation/trackerUserGuide.pdf Desktop BI Toolkit Product, Provisioned Features section.

h2. iRouter Premises Gateway

The iRouter Premises Gateway feature is an iRouter feature that facilitates the bidirectional movement of information between _iRouter_ services and the _Tracker Premises Documents_.  

The Premises Gateway feature contains three iRouter Component Factories and an Gateway EventHandler.
* EID Reader Gateway is a component factory for creating Producer services that transform EID(Electronic ID) numbers read from RFID(Radio Frequency ID) Tag Readers into iRouter _EID number_ products. 
* Measurement Event Gateway is a component factory for creating gateway services that transform iRouter _Measurement_ and _Position_ products into EventAdmin Measurement and Position Events. 
* Gateway EventHandler a gateway support service that transforms Measurement and Position events coming from the iRouter into Premises animal history events.
* Animal Life Data Gateway is a component factory for synchronizing animal life data to external devices.

h2. iRouter Premises Common Producers

The iRouter Premises Common Producers feature contains two iRouter Component Factories for creating composite Consumer and Producer services that produce iRouter Event and Animal products.	
* Premises Event Producer
** combine measurements, positions, generic events with Animal EIDs and Triggering states to produce iRouter Position and Measurement products that are identified with an animal EID;
* PremisesAnimalProducer
** combine Animal EIDs, Triggering states and referenced Animal template files to produce iRouter Animal products that can contain one or more of the standard Tracker Premises events.


h2. MongoDB Tracker Store and Location Service

The MongoDB Tracker Store and Location Service feature is a Component Factory that creates an iRouter Consumer service that consumes Tag, Animal and GenericEvent products and records that information to the MongoDB TrackerStore.   
 