h1=. EventAdmin Gateway iRouter Component

com.verticon.tracker.irouter.event.admin.gateway Version 1.0.0

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}

h2. Introduction

The EventAdmin Gateway is iRouter component is a user configurable business domain gateway. It acts as a EventAdmin consumer of String and sends these as String products to the iRouter.

An OSGi EventAdmin to iRouter gateway enables desktop applications to inject arbitrary products into iRouter consumer components. This component implements the OSBi EventHandler for listening to the EventAdmin message bus and an iRouter Producer interface that initially produces String products.

h2. EventHandler Products

* It consumes String eventAdmin products.

h2. Producer Scopes

* It produces String wireAdmin products.

h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's EventAdmin Gateway iRouter component offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>
