h1=. Example Farm

com.verticon.tracker.example Version 0.1.3

**Contents**

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}

h2. Introduction [1]

This project is an example of a typical Tracker Livestock project that uses Tracker model documents to record and manage animal identification, animal life data, animal event history, farm locations and contact information. 

h2. Project Contents
 
This project contains the following documents and files:


h3. about.html

This about file, in html format.


h3. about.textile

This about file in texttile format.

h3. autotype.metatype

An example of an iRouter configuration _metatype_ document. _Metatype_ documents are used in several places within the Tracker Toolkit.  This _metatype_ document is an example of an iRouter configuration that specifies the embedded *iRouter* infrastructure services to integrate premises data with external weighing devices and Tracker Store data storage facilities. Those just starting out or not using the iRouter product can ignore this file. For details on the iRouter, see the _iRouter User Guide Document_.

h3. blood.gif

An image file referenced by the **My.metatype** file to represent a custom event with an icon.

h3. capture.tags

A simple text file with a list of example animal id numbers used as input to the Tracker import TagId Utilities. Right menu click on the file to see the Import TagId actions. Tracker Import TagId utilities make it easy to import lists of TagIds into the _.premises_ documents.

h3. doc.admin

An example *Tracker Store* _Admin_ document for specifying users access and permissions. Those just starting out or not using the Tracker Store feature for archival or collaborative storage of premises data can ignore this file. For details on the Tracker Store, see the _Tracker Store feature in the Tracker Desktop BI Toolkit Documentation_.

h3. doc.agri

An example _Agriculture_ document used for identifying one or more _.premises_ documents as part of an _association_.  _.premises_ documents referenced in an _Agriculture Association_ can be used as input to the Tracker *Geolocatoin service* for identify animal locations for all _.premises_ documents throughout the workspace.  See the _Location Service_ documentation for more details.

h3. doc.kml

An example _Geography_ document used in GIS(Geographic Information Systems) and industry standard GeoBrowswers like Google Earth.  

h3. example.premises

An example _Premises_ document that contains example animals, animal life data, animal histories, premises details, location details, location areas and two custom events via a reference to the **My.metatype** document.  

h3. My.metatype

An example _Metatype_ document that specifies to custom events.  This document is referenced by the **example.premises** document to enable users to add these two custom events to animals included in the **example.premsies** document. 

h3. Template.animal

An example _Animal_ document used by Tracker import utilities and RFID reader services to add new Animals and events to a _.premises_ document.


 

h2. Dependencies

This example uses:
# The Tracker Premises Model Editor feature @com.verticon.tracker.editor@
# The Tracker Location Service @com.verticon.locaton@ 
# The Tracker Agriculture Model Editor @com.verticon.agriculture.editor@ 
# Eclipse BIRT @org.eclipse.birt@
# Tracker Premises Report Pack, @com.verticon.tracker.report.pack@ 

h2. Installation[2]

# Install the Tracker Premises Report Pack @com.verticon.tracker.report.pack@ 
# Import and copy this project into the workspace.[3]

h2. Reports 

Tracker Premises Reports can be copied into projects and with a @report.properties@ file report on the premises documents referenced in the properties file.  

h3(. Run Premises Reports from the Workspace 

# Create a @reports@ directory in this project.
# Copy the @report.properties@ file from the @com.verticon.tracker.premises.reports@ project folder to this directory
# Open the file and edit the line to @rp_premises_doc = platform:/resource/com.verticon.tracker.example/example.premises@
# Copy reports from the @com.verticon.tracker.premises.reports@ to the @reports@ directory
# Optionally modify the one or more of the reports for new functionality. __To keep the location independent functionality use the datasets or the data sources from the @premises.rptlibrary@ deployted to the BIRT resources directory__.
# From the __Navigator View__ select the rptdesign file you wish to run, right click to get the popup menu and select the __Report and Run Report__ menu item.


h3(. Accessing Reports from a Browser

Reports can also be launched from a browser with a parameterized URL that specifies running BIRT Web Server, the report file path and which premises document to use as a datasource. [4]

h4(. Tracker Report Pack Reports

Reports from Tracker report packs are preloaded in the BIRT Web Server and can be launched with simple location independent paths to the reports. 
* The parameter @__report@ is a relative path to the report deployed in the BIRT Web Server.  
* The parameter @rp_premises_doc@ is a platform based url referencing the premises document in the workspace.

|_. Report|_.   Description|
|"Animal Events":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=report%2Fanimal_events.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the events of all animals. Animal identification, types and a list of events. |
|"Animal Locations":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=report%2Fanimal_locations.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the last known location of all animals. Animal identification, types, weights, and locations. |

h4(. Reports in the Workspace[5]

To access browser based reports that are in the workspace or the file system, you will have to use absolute paths to the rptdesign file. 
* The parameter @__report@ is a absolute path to the report deployed in the file system.  
* The parameter @rp_premises_doc@ is a platform based url referencing the premises document in the workspace.

|_. Report|_.   Description|
|"Animal Events":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=%2Fhome%2Fjconlon%2FWorkspaces%2Fruntime-Tracker%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Freports%2Fanimal_events.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__resourceFolder=%2Fopt%2FVerticon%2Fbirt_resources%2F&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the events of all animals. Animal identification, types and a list of events. |
|"Animal Locations":http://localhost:8080/viewer/frameset?__report=%2Fhome%2Fjconlon%2FWorkspaces%2Fruntime-Tracker%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Freports%2Fanimal_locations.rptdesign&__format=html&__svg=false&__locale=en_US&__timezone=US%2FIndiana-Starke&__masterpage=true&__rtl=false&__cubememsize=10&__resourceFolder=%2Fopt%2FVerticon%2Fbirt_resources%2F&__dpi=96&-1662317431&rp_premises_doc=platform%3A%2Fresource%2Fcom.verticon.tracker.example%2Fexample.premises|Shows the last known location of all animals. Animal identification, types, weights, and locations. |

fn1. This document was created with the Wikitext textile editor. If you would like to edit this document or create documents
with WikiText, see "Getting Started with WikiText":http://eclipse.dzone.com/articles/getting-started-wikitext

fn2. To install the software go to the menu @Help | Install New Software | Tracker Release | BIRT | Tracker Premises Report Pack@

fn3. Imported projects are not required to be copied into the workspace default locations.  Use caution when working with imported but not copied projects, least they affect other user workspaces.

fn4. The links in the table will need prior configuration that is specific to your system in order to work on your local host. First, you must set the user preferences: @Report Design | Preview@ enable use external browser and @Report Design | Preview | Preview Server@ and set the port. Next, change the port in the links to reference the port you set.  Finally, you must edit the links to reference the absolute paths to the reports. For reports to work you may need to initial the ReportViewer Servlet by launching a report from the popup menu first.

fn5. These are only examples as the URL to the report is system specific.
