h1=. BIRT Report Loader

com.verticon.birt.report.loader Version 0.1.0

{toc:style=disc|minLevel=2|maxLevel=3}


h2(. Introduction

When BIRT Designer is installed in Eclipse or an RCP, the ReportViewer runs as a Servlet. Reports can be run, from popup menus in the Navigator View or Web Browsers can launch reports by opening an URL with the proper parameters set to the ReportViewer Servlet.  When viewing reports with a Web Browser URL parameters are used to identify file system paths to report design documents and shared resource folders.  

If Reports and Resources are loaded to the ReportViewer Servlet Working Path folder (specified by the @birt.viewer.root.path@ system property), Reports can be called via a Browswer with URL parameters using relative non-system specific paths.


h2(. Requirements

Package BIRT Reports and Resources within plugins called Report Packs.

On startup:
# finds all report pack bundles and extracts and loads
## all BIRT reports to @${birt.viewer.root.path}/report@ directory 
## BIRT Libraries and Styles to @${birt.viewer.root.path}/resource@ directory. 
# Sets the workspace user preference @Report Design | Resource folder@
# As workaround for __Ticket#746__ locates the @org.eclipse.emf.oda.ecore@ driver bundle and all @EMF@ models and copies them into the @${birt.viewer.root.path}/scriptlib@ directory
# Starts the web server if the system property @start.webserver=true@

This plugin will have to be assigned a start level of 3, so it will load prior to the `org.eclipse.birt.report.viewer` 

h2(. Implementation
 
Create a plugin which on startup, finds all report pack bundles and loads all BIRT reports to ${birt.viewer.root.path}/report directory and BIRT Libraries and Styles to ${birt.viewer.root.path}/resource directory. 

This plugin will have to be assigned a start level of 3, so it will load prior to the `org.eclipse.birt.report.viewer` 

h2. Powered by Eclipse Technology

Verticon's Report Loader offering is powered by Eclipse technology and includes Eclipse plug-ins that
can be installed and used with other Eclipse-based offerings.
	
h2. License

Verticon, Inc. makes available all content in this plug-in (&quot;Content&quot;).  Unless otherwise 
indicated below, the Content is provided to you under the terms and conditions of the
Eclipse Public License version 1.0 (&quot;EPL 1&quot;).  A copy of the EPL 1 is available 
at <a href="http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html">http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html</a>.
For purposes of the EPL, &quot;Program&quot; will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Verticon,Inc., the Content is 
being redistributed by another party (&quot;Redistributor&quot;) and different terms and conditions may
apply to your use of any object code in the Content.  Check the Redistributor's license that was 
provided with the Content.  If no such license exists, contact the Redistributor.  Unless otherwise
indicated below, the terms and conditions of the EPL 1 still apply to any source code in the Content
and such source code may be obtained at <a href="http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html">http://tracker.verticon.com/index.html</a>.</p>
